In the last video,
you saw what it might mean to learn
a featurized representations
of different words.
In this video, you see how we can
take these representations and
plug them into NLP applications.
Let's start with an example.
Continuing with the named
entity recognition example,
if you're trying to detect people's names.
Given a sentence like Sally Johnson is
an orange farmer, hopefully, you'll figure
out that Sally Johnson is a person's name,
hence, the outputs 1 like that.
And one way to be sure that
Sally Johnson has to be a person, rather
than say the name of the corporation is
that you know orange farmer is a person.
So previously, we had talked about one hot
representations to represent these words,
x(1), x(2), and so on.
But if you can now use
the featurized representations,
the embedding vectors that we
talked about in the last video.
Then after having trained a model that
uses word embeddings as the inputs,
if you now see a new input,
Robert Lin is an apple farmer.
Knowing that orange and apple are very
similar will make it easier for
your learning algorithm to generalize
to figure out that Robert Lin is also
a human, is also a person's name.
One of the most interesting cases will be,
what if in your test set you see
not Robert Lin is an apple farmer,
but you see much less common words?
What if you see Robert Lin
is a durian cultivator?
A durian is a rare type of fruit, popular
in Singapore and a few other countries.
But if you have a small label training set
for the named entity recognition task,
you might not even have
seen the word durian or
seen the word cultivator
in your training set.
I guess technically,
this should be a durian cultivator.
But if you have learned a word embedding
that tells you that durian is a fruit,
so it's like an orange, and a cultivator,
someone that cultivates is like a farmer,
then you might still be generalize from
having seen an orange farmer in your
training set to knowing that a durian
cultivator is also probably a person.
So one of the reasons that word
embeddings will be able to do this is
the algorithms to learning word embeddings
can examine very large text corpuses,
maybe found off the Internet.
So you can examine very large data sets,
maybe a billion words,
maybe even up to 100 billion
words would be quite reasonable.
So very large training sets
of just unlabeled text.
And by examining tons of unlabeled text,
which you can download more or
less for free, you can figure out
that orange and durian are similar.
And farmer and cultivator are similar,
and therefore,
learn embeddings,
that groups them together.
Now having discovered that orange and
durian are both fruits by reading
massive amounts of Internet text,
what you can do is then take this word
embedding and apply it to your named
entity recognition task, for which you
might have a much smaller training set,
maybe just 100,000 words in your
training set, or even much smaller.
And so this allows you to
carry out transfer learning,
where you take information
you've learned from
huge amounts of unlabeled text that
you can suck down essentially for
free off the Internet to figure out that
orange, apple, and durian are fruits.
And then transfer that knowledge to
a task, such as named entity recognition,
for which you may have a relatively
small labeled training set.
And, of course, for simplicity, l drew
this for it only as a unidirectional RNN.
If you actually want to carry out the
named entity recognition task, you should,
of course, use a bidirectional RNN rather
than a simpler one I've drawn here.
But to summarize,
this is how you can carry out transfer
learning using word embeddings.
Step 1 is to learn word embeddings
from a large text corpus, a very large
text corpus or you can also download
pre-trained word embeddings online.
There are several word embeddings
that you can find online
under very permissive licenses.
And you can then take these
word embeddings and transfer
the embedding to new task, where you have
a much smaller labeled training sets.
And use this, let's say, 300 dimensional
embedding, to represent your words.
One nice thing also about
this is you can now use
relatively lower dimensional
feature vectors.
So rather than using a 10,000
dimensional one-hot vector,
you can now instead use maybe
a 300 dimensional dense vector.
Although the one-hot vector is fast and
the 300 dimensional vector that
you might learn for
your embedding will be a dense vector.
And then, finally,
as you train your model on your new task,
on your named entity recognition
task with a smaller label data set,
one thing you can optionally do
is to continue to fine tune,
continue to adjust the word
embeddings with the new data.
In practice, you would do this only if
this task 2 has a pretty big data set.
If your label data set for
step 2 is quite small, then usually,
I would not bother to continue to
fine tune the word embeddings.
So word embeddings tend to make the
biggest difference when the task you're
trying to carry out has
a relatively smaller training set.
So it has been useful for many NLP tasks.
And I'll just name a few.
Don't worry if you don't know these terms.
It has been useful for named entity
recognition, for text summarization, for
co-reference resolution, for parsing.
These are all maybe pretty
standard NLP tasks.
It has been less useful for
language modeling, machine translation,
especially if you're accessing a language
modeling or machine translation task for
which you have a lot of data
just dedicated to that task.
So as seen in other
transfer learning settings,
if you're trying to transfer
from some task A to some task B,
the process of transfer learning is
just most useful when you happen to
have a ton of data for A and
a relatively smaller data set for B.
And so that's true for
a lot of NLP tasks, and just less true for
some language modeling and
machine translation settings.
Finally, word embeddings has
a interesting relationship to the face
encoding ideas that you learned
about in the previous course,
if you took the convolutional
neural networks course.
So you will remember that for
face recognition,
we train this Siamese network
architecture that would learn,
say, a 128 dimensional representation for
different faces.
And then you can compare these
encodings in order to figure out if
these two pictures are of the same face.
The words encoding and
embedding mean fairly similar things.
So in the face recognition literature,
people also use the term
encoding to refer to these vectors,
f(x(i)) and f(x(j)).
One difference between the face
recognition literature and
what we do in word embeddings is that,
for face recognition,
you wanted to train a neural network
that can take as input any face picture,
even a picture you've never seen before,
and have a neural network compute
an encoding for that new picture.
Whereas what we'll do, and you'll
understand this better when we go through
the next few videos, whereas what we'll
do for learning word embeddings is that
we'll have a fixed vocabulary of,
say, 10,000 words.
And we'll learn a vector e1 through, say,
e10,000 that just learns
a fixed encoding or
learns a fixed embedding for
each of the words in our vocabulary.
So that's one difference between the set
of ideas you saw for face recognition
versus what the algorithms we'll
discuss in the next few videos.
But the terms encoding and embedding
are used somewhat interchangeably.
So the difference I just described is
not represented by the difference in
terminologies.
It's just a difference in how we need to
use these algorithms in face recognition,
where there's unlimited sea of
pictures you could see in the future.
Versus natural language processing, where
there might be just a fixed vocabulary,
and everything else like that we'll
just declare as an unknown word.
So in this video, you saw how using
word embeddings allows you to
implement this type of transfer learning.
And how, by replacing the one-hot vectors
we're using previously with the embedding
vectors, you can allow your algorithms
to generalize much better, or
you can learn from much less label data.
Next, I want to show you just a few more
properties of these word embeddings.
And then after that,
we will talk about algorithms for
actually learning these word embeddings.
Let's go on to the next video,
where you'll see how word embeddings can
help with reasoning about analogies.